# Akash Savanur

+65 81732147 | akash013@e.ntu.edu.sg | linkedin.com/in/akash-savanur |

## Education

### Nanyang Technological University, Singapore

* Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science, Second Major in Business

**CGPA: 4.84/5.00**

Aug 2023 - July 2027

### Relevant Coursework

* Data Structures and Algorithms, Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, Digital Logic, Financial Management

## Experience

### Full Stack Development Intern

**Doozie Soft**

June 2024 - July 2024

Bangalore, India

* Engineered a full-fledged temple management website using the PERN stack (PostgreSQL, Express, React, Node.js).
* Designed and deployed 15+ microservices, reducing API response times by 40%, and handled over 2000 user registrations and 500+ payments through Razorpay with a 98% success rate.
* Integrated WhatsApp APIs for OTP generation and notifications, enhancing user authentication and engagement, along with automated audit logs and receipt generation for secure transactions.
* Managed the deployment process on AWS services, ensuring high scalability and reliability of the application, and maintained robust version control using GitHub.
* Registered over 2000 users within the beta phase, facilitated by efficient event booking and donation management features, contributing to high user satisfaction and engagement.

### Phishing Email Detection using Machine Learning

**Nanyang Technological University**

Apr 2024 - May 2024

Singapore

* Designed a Machine Learning solution to accurately classify and detect phishing emails, providing practical insights to prevent individuals from falling victim to phishing attacks in real-world scenarios.
* Utilized Logistic Regression, Random Forest, GRU Neural Network and SVM machine learning models.
* Best-performing model had an F1-score of 0.97.
* The findings of this project have practical implications in real-world scenarios, where individuals can use the developed model to identify and avoid phishing emails, thereby reducing the risk of falling victim to cyber attacks.

### Software Engineering Intern

**Excelsoft Technologies Pvt Ltd**

Apr 2022 - May 2022

Mysore, India

* Collaborated with a team of 5 developers to design and implement an employee attendance system; collaborated with system engineers, testing and QA for final delivery.
* Designed a facial recognition system using PyTorch and utilised the Django framework for implementation.
* Utilized four Machine Learning models and frameworks; Implemented convolutional neural networks and deep learning algorithms to optimise the model.

### Project Leader

**New York Academy of Sciences (NYAS)**

Nov 2021 - Jan 2022

* Led a team of 4 in the NYAS Telemedicine challenge; designed a mobile application aimed at tackling problems related to telemedicine diagnosis; enhanced data analytics competencies.

## Technical Skills

**Languages:** Java, Python, C/C++, SQL (Postgres), JavaScript, HTML/CSS, R

**Frameworks:** React, Node.js, Django, Redux, Express, Material-UI, MongoDB

**Developer Tools:** Git, Google Cloud Platform, VS Code, Visual Studio, PyCharm

**Libraries:** pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scikit-learn, PyTorch, Flask

## Business/Finance Skills

* NPV, IRR, MIRR, WACC, Equity markets, Bond markets, Portfolio analysis, Corporate Finance, Investments, Marketing